Field validation prevents the user from inputting invalid data.
Data storage costs money in your app should only store what's meaningful.
So in this lesson, you will add constraints to the name and subject fields.
Let's go through the field validation process.
It takes five steps.
Step one is to annotate the fields that you want to validate.
In this example, courtesy of Spring Boot Magic, the men annotation can check if the age provided is
at least 18 years old.
Step two is to pass on a bad input.
When the user presses submit, a post request will be initiated and the post request payload will have
as many parameters as there are fields attached to each input.
The handler method validates the fields.
Spring Boot will create an empty person object that's ready to receive the payload from the post request.
And Spring Boot is smart enough to use your setters to update every single field in this object with
payload from the post request.
As we update the object, Spring Boot is going to try and validate each field.
The first field is valid.
However, we require the age to be at least 18.
So the age field is not valid.
A binding result will carry the result of the validation.
So in this case, our validation process does have errors in step five if the result is negative.
The handler method forces the user to stay in the form view.
So the binding result has errors, which means we're going to force the user to go back to the form.
And step six finally catches the errors and displays them to the user.
So the binding result keeps a record of the object name where the validation process took place, and
this object name is going to match whatever object file if attached to our form.
It's going to keep a record of all the errors associated with each field.
There is an error associated with the field.
Finally, if can access that error from the binding result and display it in the form.
So step one is to actually annotate your field that needs validation.
And field validation in Spring Boot is like magic.
Spring Boot provides many standard annotations that you can apply to your fields.
This will be inside of your cheat sheet, so not to worry.
Now, each annotation validates a field in some way.
In order to leverage these annotations, we're going to have to add the spring boot starter validation
dependency.
So I'll go over to Google and I will Google the spring boot validation dependency.
We can grab it from the central maven repo.
I'll grab the one that corresponds to my application version 2.6.7.
But that won't really matter because what I'm going to do is delete the version number because the version
for spring boot starters has already been specified on top, and I will choose to synchronize the built
file.
All right.
This dependency provides all of the classes we need for field validation.
So first, what I'm going to do is go to great Java and apply the not blank annotation to name and to
subject.
We'll say.
And.
And just as a side note, if this doesn't auto import for you or it doesn't show you the option, try
just running the app first and if that doesn't work, relaunch your editor.
This applies to both V's code and IntelliJ and an intelligent.
You should have this invalidate cache button.
Make sure to press that and your problem should be solved.
So we'll add the not too blank annotation.
Over here and here as well.
And each constraint can return a message if the user violates it.
This should come with a default message that we're just going to override.
We'll say Name cannot be blank.
Not blank.
Blank.
And we'll do the same thing here.
We'll just say subject cannot be blank.
Now careful to use, not blank instead of not empty.
The not empty annotation doesn't consider the fact that the user may enter a lot of white space, which
isn't considered empty but is considered blank.
All right.
Step two is to pass in bed and put the post request carries the data to your app, and regardless of
the input that's going to populate the object with fields, you can actually verify this by running
your app.
And I'll just go ahead.
In print.
The grade subject.
Or get subject, I should say.
And grade name.
So even if we have those annotations, it's still going to update the fields in this object.
Let's test it out.
We'll leave this blank and we'll say C minus.
And you can't really see anything because the values are blank.
But the field values were printed there, just white space.
So take home message regardless of the input.
Spring populates every field in this object.
So step three is to apply the valid annotation.
The valid annotation checks if the fields are valid.
So as spring is populating the object with field values from the post request valid.
Can actually check if any of them are invalid.
So make sure to add this annotation.
Otherwise the validation process will not happen.
Now step four is to check for the binding result.
Binding result carries the result of the validation.
After valid checks.
If the fields are valid, binding result carries the result of the validation.
You can access the binding result from the handlers list of parameters binding result results.
Now this binding result must always come after the object that is being validated or else spring is
going to fail to validate the object and it's going to throw an exception.
So do not mix the order of the parameters.
The object's fields get validated first and the binding result comes right after.
And so after spring boot validates the object.
We're going to check if the result has errors.
So we'll just print.
Has errors with a question mark.
And we're going to print the boolean value that results from a result.
DOT has errors.
Okay.
Now I'll go back to Slash.
Choose the button.
I'll submit a form where the field values are blank.
Press submit.
We do have errors.
Cool.
Now step five is to return the appropriate view.
A negative binding result must force the user to stay inside the form.
If there are errors, the handler method should return the form view.
So at the moment, regardless of errors, the the handler method is updating the data store and redirecting
them to the grades view.
That's not how it should be.
If there are errors, we don't want to redirect the user anywhere.
We want to keep them inside the form view.
So we'll say if result has errors, then we're just going to return the form.
The binding result has errors and so the user stays inside the form.
Now step six is to actually display the errors to the user.
This binding result that you see here, it keeps a record of the object as well as the fields that were
violated.
This information, upon keeping the user inside the form view, is sent back to the file template and
so we can use the leaf attribute errors to display the constraint violation of a field.
So here, what I can do is add a paragraph tag.
Now this entire form is bound to the model object grade, which means this paragraph element and all
other underlying elements can use a selection expression to select a field in the form backing object.
So this is going to select the name field and timely errors is smart enough to access the error associated
with that field, not the field itself.
So leaf errors will display the error for that field.
And what we're going to do is actually give this a style of read.
So style is equal to color red, just to make this look nice.
And then I will put another paragraph tag right above the subject, and here I will select the subject
of the previously bound object.
Finally, if errors will return the error associated with that field.
All right.
If I go back here.
Wonderful.
The first paragraph element displays the constraint violation for the field name, and the second paragraph
element displays the constraint violation for the field subject.
Now some of you might be wondering why not redirect the user to the home page.
There are two issues with this.
Number one, why would you redirect them to a page that they're already in?
Number two, if you do this, you would actually lose the binding result data because now you're making
an entirely new get request.
So all data that was initiated from the post request would now be gone.
Try it out.
And we see nothing because it made an entirely new get request and we lost all that data from the binding
result.
So.
So the solution is to just return the leaf template and right before returning it, spring boot is going
to send over all of the necessary data, only redirect the user.
If the form submission is successful, that's when it would make sense.
Otherwise, if the result has errors, we don't want to redirect them anywhere.
We just want to keep them inside the form.
To recap, you prevented the user from inputting invalid name and subject data.
This is a lot to recap, so tune in to the next breakpoint session.